---
layout:     post
title:      "Graduate School to Web Immersive"
date:       2015-03-15
categories: grad school web development immersive boot camp
picture:    /assets/pictures/blog/DSCF6214.jpg
---


I got my Masters degree in Speech-Language Pathology. It's a wonderful field with many amazing people who are ready to change the world one student (or patient) at a time. They care deeply about the well-being of every client and are eager to implement the best possible treatment for him/her. I then decided to attend a programming boot camp in the middle of the start up world in New York City. The field is exciting and the people involved at the school were very passionate and patient at the same time.

Before I graduated with my Bachelor's degree I was pretty sure I wasn't going to continue my education. I was very tired of taking classes that didn't teach me much and required lots of (busy) work to receive a good grade. However, I had chosen a field that would not allow me to work in my profession without a graduate degree. So I went. I was very pleasantly surprised when I learned that Grad School was completely different from Undergrad. The material we covered in class was relevant to my subject of choice and it was very applicable. The assignments were directly related to the clinic work we had to do alongside of the classes, so I could see the importance of (almost) every one.

I was very surprised to see how much every single one of my professors cared about my education as well as my personal well-being. Many of my professors knew exactly what was going on in our lives and what we were anxious about. Our clinic director informed us during our first week of classes that she always keeps tissues in her office and we are more than welcome to talk whenever we need to. I loved having such supportive and caring educators. Within our class we had a strong bond, being that we spent everyday together in every class. I think that getting to know so many girls on such a close level was one of my favorite parts of Grad School! The time outside of class we spent together in the clinic, preparing for clients and being scared of being videotaped while conducting our sessions.

These sessions were used to analyze the quality of therapy we provided by our supervisors, clients’ parents, potentially future classes, and ourselves. This added a whole new level of stress. The awareness of one’s performance being not only known to oneself and one’s professor, but also potentially whole future classes was nerve wrecking. However, it did also lead to great results. The best way to improve is to analyze one’s mistakes and learn from them. Just to see how I could have reacted differently in some situations alone has taught me so much. I think it’s so easy to put something aside when you first learn it, thinking, “Of course, I would never do that”. In practice some of this is a lot harder. The classes themselves were challenging, but manageable. The material was very applicable, which made a huge difference for my motivation and me. In addition to the classwork and clinic work, most students had assistantships in which they either assisted a professor in teaching, research, or both. There were students who did not sleep until late in the mornings because they spent so much time working on school stuff. Our social lives were basically limited to fellow SLP-students during the first year of grad school. The second year focused more on application of the new knowledge through internships. But, like I said before, we learned a lot and we were able to directly apply that knowledge to our clients in the clinic. What kept us going were each other, professors who were invested in us, our clients, and the promise of a great career following our education.

In my case, this became a little difficult after graduation. My husband is in Tech and Ohio wasn't a very conducive environment for him to expand on his knowledge. So we decided to move to New York City. What a great prospect! We always loved the city and were very excited to start our new lives out here. He was quickly able to find work and immensely enjoyed himself. I, however, struggled. This was not something I was expecting being that I had always been told that there was such a vast shortage of SLPs in this country. Turns out that this is true everywhere except NYC. Well, also in NYC, but here employers were unwilling to hire new graduates. I was able to make connections in which I was sure I was going to be able to at least get an interview, but as soon as employers realized that I was a new graduate, I was out.

Shortly after I started working in customer service. I worked for a great company, but realized quickly that customer service was not something I wanted to do. After some consideration I decided to go to General Assembly to take the Web Development Immersive there. It's a three-month intensive program during which students are taught to program, regardless of how much experience he or she had before. I had no experience before this. Before classes started, we were sent a tutorial for fundamentals, which we were to be completed before the first day of class. The whole program was very fast-paced. We learned new material everyday and applied it during daily assignments in the afternoons. We had longer and more complex assignments on the weekends, as well as two large projects and one large group project. During this time we learned how to use the tools necessary to write code and to collaborate. The projects taught us to fundamentals of organizing a project sprint and testing. Finally GA organized a 2-week long hackathon, in which we worked in teams with a Product Manager, a User Experience person, and other developers. During this time we learned Agile software development and more of the inner workings of a team. One of the developers from my team was working remotely, so we acquired additional skills about technologies that allow for screen sharing and continuous communication. GA did a wonderful job of not only teaching us web development, but also other skills that are necessary to work in the tech world. We received 480 hours of instruction purely on web development. In addition to this we spent another 20 hours a week on homework. While we do not have a degree to show for, we spent a similar amount of time learning.

Having gone through both - the traditional education system, and a dev boot camp, I have to say that both have their perks. While I was in Undergrad I often did not see much value in the coursework that did not relate to my major. Not having to deal with that aspect of education was a very pleasant experience. We learned so much from each other, being that we all became close after spending so much time together. Both programs provided me with instructors who had lots of experience in my field of study. I do sometimes feel as though having been exposed to coding for a longer overall period of time (like during a bachelor’s degree) would have given me an advantage, but I also think that GA gives me a jumpstart and now I can work on gaining more experience. I don’t think that there’s a better way to learn more skills faster than an immersive. I don’t feel as though I am as grounded in my knowledge of development as I am in Speech-Language Pathology, but I feel that this will come with time and more experience. I think that I am able to accomplish whatever I may think of with regard to web development. I do believe that Speech-Language Pathology is better served in a traditional setting since it is necessary to have better controls in place for medical professions. For programming, on the other hand, I actually think I prefer the non-traditional path. Schools like GA have the unique opportunity to shift their focus of teaching more quickly than Universities. They are able to respond to industry changes faster and they do a great job staying on top of the latest technology and incorporating it into the curriculum.

Looking back I don’t think that I would want to miss either experience. I think that everything has its place. Code schools are able to give people who are looking for change new opportunities fast. Universities have long established roles of ensuring a certain standard after graduation. Whatever field you’re in, it’s always important to keep learning after graduation. Both programs taught me how to continue teaching myself in the retrospective areas to ensure I can be my best even after graduation.
























